<div align=center>

---
# Free project (S9) proposal form

</div>

## 1) Complete title
SExtractor driven by Machine Learning

## 2) Acronym
SEDML

## 3) List of the students concerned by the project
Vincent Foriel

## 4) Main scientific domain
Astrophysics

## 5) Main nature of the project
Data/image processing (including astronomical observations and machine learning methods)

## 6) Abstract
Most of the astronomical surveys need to extract objects from the pictures in order to study them. Several algorithm exist, such as the SExtractor and are efficient, but can an AI be more efficient? If we talk about computation time, the advantage of an AI is evident, but what about the accuracy and the relevance of the results? Can we manage to create an AI that produce strongly reliable results?

## 7) Goals of the project

1. Study the ability of an AI to extract sources from images (comparison with human eye and with classical SExtractor)
2. Discuss about the relevance of the results
3. Try to a clearer view of wich parameters may or may not be used and why


## 8) Integrated development environment (coding language, softwares, hardware,...)

This project consist in a proof of concept. Thus, it will be made in python 3.10 in order to be as simple, clear and fast-to-implement as possible. For the first steps at least, the program will generate it's own sky images, so no other soft software will be needed.

Depending of the needs of accuracy, the training phase of the AI might need a powerfull server with big storage capacity in order to be processed in a reasonable amount of time.

## 9) Description of the deliverables for the alpha version (minimal expected results)

As a minimum viable product, this project aims to design a basic neural network capable of extracting source from a picture with a certain probability (associated to the confidence of being a real source)

## 10) Description of the deliverables for the beta version

The next objective will be to test big number of parameter variations in order to determine which one are interesting or not.

## 11) Description of the deliverables for the gold version (expected results in a perfect world)

The gold version will consist to directly compare it with images and source catalogs generated with SExtractor

## 12) Tasks to be done (list, organization and dependences of the tasks, schedule, division of tasks among the concerned students, Gantt diagram)

Alpha:

- Tools to create simulated observations
    1. Containing gaussian source (already done)
    2. With noise (already done)
    3. (optional) With simple telescope diffraction profile (already done)
    4. (optional) With artifacts (satelites, gamma rays etc)
    5. (optional) With complexe telescopes shapes (ex: fragmented ones)
- Generate a huge number of simulated observations and organize them to be treated by a neural network
- Design the neural network (using a popular template) and make it work

Beta:

- Tune the parameters to improve the accuracy and the relevance of the results

Gold:

- Find images database and associated catalogs generated by SExtractor
- Adapt the data
- Train AI and validate the pertinence of the previously defined parameters (beta version)
- Compare the results with the existing catalogs


## 13) Does the project require the use of commercial softwares?
Non

## 14) How do you plan to access these softwares?

--

## 15) Does the project require the use of specific hardwares (computer cluster, experimental or astronomical equipments, ...) ?
Oui

## 16) How do you plan to access these hardwares?

I plan to use the CompuPhys server when it will be available. Otherwise I would use my personal computer which is powerfull enough to support most of the project.

## 17) Does the project require access to specific data (experimental results, observational data or images, databases)?
Oui

## 18) How do you plan to access this data?

I plan to ask people I know who already used the SExtractor program, and also try to find open databases on internet.

## 19) Other relevant informations
--
